MIDISPLIT(1)                                                      MIDISPLIT(1)



NAME
       midisplit - split a MIDI file into multiple tracks

SYNOPSIS
       midisplit [ OPTIONS ] FILE

DESCRIPTION
       midisplit takes a MIDI file with one track and splits that track into a
       multitrack MIDI file, according to MIDI note number.  Its original pur-
       pose  was  to  process  the  output  of software drum machines, and the
       default behaviour reflects that.

       The default is to split the track into  groups  of  similar  percussion
       instruments.  See examples.

       NB:  When  using  MIDI, numbers that specify notes are used for instru-
       ments on percussion tracks, and the usage and documentation  of  midis-
       plit generally use 'note' and 'instrument' interchangably.

OPTIONS
       -g, --gmnames
              use  General  MIDI  percussion  names  for  tracks.  This is the
              default if track numbers are specified.

       -m, --melodic
              use note names for tracks.  Specifically  note  and  octave:  'C
              4','F# 3', etc.

       -n, --names
              specify  names  for tracks.  May be comma separated or repeated:
              -nKick,Snare is equivalent to -nKick -nSnare.

       -o, --outfile
              output file name.  Default is to modify FILE so that mymusic.mid
              becomes mymusicSPLIT.mid.

       -s, --solo
              create one track for each note/instrument in FILE

       -t, --track
              put  groups  of  comma separated notes/instruments on one track.
              May be repeated: -t35,36 -t42,44 would create a two  track  file
              with two notes/instruments each.

       -h, --help,--usage
              display help and exit.

       --version
              display version information and exit.

EXAMPLES
       midisplit mymusic.mid
              Create  a  file called mymusicSPLIT.mid comprising the following
              tracks: Kick, Snare, Toms, Hi-hats,  Cymbals,  Metallic  Percus-
              sion,  Latin  Drums  and  Latin  Percussion, assuming that mymu-
              sic.mid has at least one instrument in each category.

       midisplit -t35,36 -nKick -t42,44,46 -nHats -omykickhats.mid mymusic.mid
              Split mymusic.mid into 2 tracks called Kick and Hats in  a  file
              called mykickhats.mid.

       midisplit -t35,36 -t42,44,46 -nKick,Hats -omykickhats.mid mymusic.mid
              Exactly equivalent to above.

       midisplit -m -s mymusic.mid
              Create  a  file called mymusicSPLIT.mid that has each note value
              in mymusic.mid on its own track, named for the note.

AUTHOR
       Written by Christopher J. Rooney. Contact  at  christopher.j.rooney  at
       that obscure email service google has.

BUGS
       Only takes MIDI format 0 (single track) files as input.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  A(C)  2012  Christopher  J.  Rooney. License: Boost Software
       License, Version 1.0. <http://www.boost.org/LICENSE_1_0.txt>

       FSM approved. This is free software. There is no warranty.  May  create
       skynet.

SEE ALSO
       MIDI specification and resources available at <http://www.midi.org>



                                  21 May 2012                     MIDISPLIT(1)
